Computer architecture is the end to end structure of a computer that determines how its components interact with each other in helping the machine’s overall purpose.
The main components of modern Computer architecture are listed below:
1. CPU  It is known as the brain of the computer
It is mainly made of the ALU, CU and registers.
ALU  Has the responsibility to carry our calculations
CU  Controls how the instructions are executed.
Registers  A very small memory inside of the CPU
2. Memory This part stores data and programs
It comprises of:
RamTemporary and fast memory which is erased when power is off.
ROM  Permanent storage for data and programs.
Cache  Very fast memory close to the CPU.
3. Input and output devices  How the computer interact with the outer world.
For example, an input device would be a keyboard, and an output device would be a motor or a printer.
4. Buses  This is the communication pathway along which addresses and data moves in.
Most Architecture use the fetch-decode-execute cycle.

The two most famous Architecture:

1. Von Neumann
A digital computer architecture where the design is based on the concept of stored program computers where program data and instructions are stored in the same memory.
This makes provides simplicity as all data and instructions are stored in a single memory space which helps the designing of a computer system. However, bottleneck issues may arise where data and control instructions cannot be obtained thus making it slow.
2. Harvard
A digital computer architecture whose design is based on the concept where there are separate storage and separate buses for instruction and data. 
It overcomes the bottleneck of Von Neumann Architecture. This in turns provides much faster processing, improved security and efficient use of resources.
This is used by Microcontrollers.
Microcontroller:
A microcontroller is known as a self-contained computer on a chip which is used to control a specific task or device.
The chip contains the memory, the processor, input output terminals and other important parts.
An example of a microcontroller would be an Arduino Uno which is widely used for robotics projects.
A micro-controller continuously reads data from inputs like sensors, processes the data using a specific programs and controls the output of an Actuator.
It is to be notes that a microcontroller does not need an OS and usually only requires low power for it to be working.
It is also relatively small in size.

General Purpose Computers:
This is a computer system designed to perform various types of tasks unlike a micro-controller which normally carries out one specific task.
It can run a great range of applications and can perform many tasks depending on the software and applications running on it. In addition, the software can be regularly updated unlike micro-controllers.
A key factor of General-purpose computers is that it requires an OS unlike a micro-controller which does not. The OS manages memory files, apps and even the hardware connected to it.
Moreover, it has a very powerful CPU and has very large RAM. Some often include GPUs.
However concerning their sizes, a general-purpose computer is much bigger than a micro-controller.
In most cases, General Computers are used to for web-browsing, Gaming, Office work and many others. 






